Git Practice File

GIT NOTES

git status
Shows the current state of the working directory and staging area.

git add <file>
Stages a file for the next commit.

git commit -m "message"
Creates a commit containing the staged changes.
-m stands for message.

git push
Uploads local commits to the remote GitHub repository.

git pull
Downloads changes from the remote repository and updates the local branch.

git fetch
Downloads information about changes from the remote repository without applying them.

git diff
Shows changes that have been made but are not staged.

git restore <file>
Discards unstaged changes and restores the file to its last committed version.

git restore --staged <file>
Removes a file from staging while keeping its changes.

git add .
Stages all changed and untracked files in the current repository for the next commit.
It does not re-commit unchanged files.

git log
Shows the commit history of the repository.

git log --oneline --decorate -3
Shows the latest 3 commits in a shorter format.
--oneline → Shows each commit on one line.
--decorate → Shows branch/HEAD information next to commits.
-3 → Shows the latest 3 commits.

Related Git log information:
- HEAD → Shows the branch/commit you are currently on.
- main → The local main branch.
- origin/main → The main branch of the remote GitHub repository.
- origin/HEAD → Points to the default branch of the remote repository.

GIT BRANCHES

A branch is a separate line of development.
Creating a branch does not create a duplicate folder or project.

git branch
Lists the branches in the repository.

git switch -c <branch>
Creates a new branch and switches to it.

git switch <branch>
Switches to an existing branch.

Changes and commits made on one branch do not automatically appear on another branch.

Local and remote branches:
- main → The local main branch.
- origin/main → The main branch on GitHub.
- practice → The local practice branch.
- origin/practice → The practice branch on GitHub.

git push -u origin <branch>
Pushes a new local branch to GitHub and sets it as the upstream branch.

After an upstream branch is set, git push can be used normally.

GitHub can show "Compare & pull request" when a branch contains changes that are not in the target branch.

The contents of this file will change throughout my Git practice.
This change exists only on the practice branch.